README.md, before:

# merakiBackupAndRestore

This tool allows creating backups of any networks containing the tag `merakiBackup`, and restoring these networks to their backup state by attaching the tag `merakiRestore`.

![image alt text](images/merakiBackupAndRestore_1.png)

# Table of Contents

[Introduction](#intro)

[Prerequisites](#prereq)

[How to use](#howtouse)

[Backup Operation](#backup)

[Restore Operation](#restore)

[Caveats](#caveats)

<a id="intro"></a>

# Introduction

The Cisco Meraki Dashboards allows organizations to manage large numbers of IT devices distributed across many locations in a simplified manner, centralizing configurations in one point. However, a direct backup and restore tool from the GUI does not exist today. In many cases, it's easy enough to utilize the Organization Changelog to revert a change you made at some point in the past, but undoing a large set of changes can be a difficult proposition.

Luckily, the Cisco Meraki Dashboard is accompanied by a robust set of REST APIs that allow the construction of such backup and restore tools, and merakiBackupAndRestore attempts to fill that gap. This tool allows the creation of backups that are stored locally as a collection of directories with JSON files to represent each set of configurations in your Dashboard, and it also allows restoring a given set of networks to a previous backup stored in the source directory.

<a id="prereq"></a>

## Prerequisites

1. Active Cisco Meraki subscriptions in the orgs where the script will be run
2. API access enabled for these organizations, as well as an API Key with access to them. See how to enable [here](https://documentation.meraki.com/General_Administration/Other_Topics/Cisco_Meraki_Dashboard_API)
3. A working Python 3.0 environment
4. Install libraries in `requirements.txt`
5. Have some deployed organizations and networks with MX, MR and MS devices (MV, MT and MG are not supported right now, they will be ignored during the backup and restore process).

<a id="howtouse"></a>

## How to Use

1. Clone repo to your working directory with `git clone https://github.com/Francisco-1088/merakiBackupAndRestore.git`
2. Edit `config.py`
* Add your API Key under `api_key` in line 1
* Define a `backup_tag`, by default it will be `merakiBackup`
* Define a `restore_tag`, by default it will be `merakiRestore`
* Define a `backup_directory`, by default it will be `./backup`
* Optionally, specify EITHER a list of organization IDs under `org_number_filter` in the format `['org_id_1', 'org_id_2', 'org_id_3']` or a string under `org_name_filter` in the format `string` for filtering the organizations you wish to work with (only useful if your API Key has access to many organizations). You can find your Org ID easily by right clicking anywhere in the screen while logged in to your organization, and clicking "View Page Source". In the resulting page use "Find" to look for the keyword `Mkiconf.org_id`

![image alt text](images/org_id.png)

3. Run `pip install -r requirements.txt` from your terminal
4. [Tag networks](https://documentation.meraki.com/General_Administration/Organizations_and_Networks/Organization_Menu/Manage_Tags) you want to work on with the same tag you defined in `config.py` under `backup_tag` and `restore_tag`. `backup_tag` defines the networks within the organization you wish to take backups from. `restore_tag` defines the networks within the organization you wish to restore to a previous backup. If no networks are tagged for a backup operation, if choosing a backup task, the script will end without taking any backups. If choosing a restore task when no networks are tagged for a restore operations, no networks will be restored.

![image alt text](images/network_tags.png)

5. Run the script with `python main.py`

<a name="backup"></a>

## Backup Operation

<a name="restore"></a>

## Restore Operation

<a name="caveats"></a>

## Caveats

Commit message:

Update README.md with Backup details

README.md, after:

# merakiBackupAndRestore

This tool allows creating backups of any networks containing the tag `merakiBackup`, and restoring these networks to their backup state by attaching the tag `merakiRestore`.

![image alt text](images/merakiBackupAndRestore_1.png)

# Table of Contents

[Introduction](#intro)

[Prerequisites](#prereq)

[How to use](#howtouse)

[Backup Operation](#backup)

[Restore Operation](#restore)

[Caveats](#caveats)

<a id="intro"></a>

# Introduction

The Cisco Meraki Dashboards allows organizations to manage large numbers of IT devices distributed across many locations in a simplified manner, centralizing configurations in one point. However, a direct backup and restore tool from the GUI does not exist today. In many cases, it's easy enough to utilize the Organization Changelog to revert a change you made at some point in the past, but undoing a large set of changes can be a difficult proposition.

Luckily, the Cisco Meraki Dashboard is accompanied by a robust set of REST APIs that allow the construction of such backup and restore tools, and merakiBackupAndRestore attempts to fill that gap. This tool allows the creation of backups that are stored locally as a collection of directories with JSON files to represent each set of configurations in your Dashboard, and it also allows restoring a given set of networks to a previous backup stored in the source directory.

<a id="prereq"></a>

## Prerequisites

1. Active Cisco Meraki subscriptions in the orgs where the script will be run
2. API access enabled for these organizations, as well as an API Key with access to them. See how to enable [here](https://documentation.meraki.com/General_Administration/Other_Topics/Cisco_Meraki_Dashboard_API)
3. A working Python 3.0 environment
4. Install libraries in `requirements.txt`
5. Have some deployed organizations and networks with MX, MR and MS devices (MV, MT and MG are not supported right now, they will be ignored during the backup and restore process).

<a id="howtouse"></a>

## How to Use

1. Clone repo to your working directory with `git clone https://github.com/Francisco-1088/merakiBackupAndRestore.git`
2. Edit `config.py`
* Add your API Key under `api_key` in line 1
* Define a `backup_tag`, by default it will be `merakiBackup`
* Define a `restore_tag`, by default it will be `merakiRestore`
* Define a `backup_directory`, by default it will be `./backup`
* Optionally, specify EITHER a list of organization IDs under `org_number_filter` in the format `['org_id_1', 'org_id_2', 'org_id_3']` or a string under `org_name_filter` in the format `string` for filtering the organizations you wish to work with (only useful if your API Key has access to many organizations). You can find your Org ID easily by right clicking anywhere in the screen while logged in to your organization, and clicking "View Page Source". In the resulting page use "Find" to look for the keyword `Mkiconf.org_id`

![image alt text](images/org_id.png)

3. Run `pip install -r requirements.txt` from your terminal
4. [Tag networks](https://documentation.meraki.com/General_Administration/Organizations_and_Networks/Organization_Menu/Manage_Tags) you want to work on with the same tag you defined in `config.py` under `backup_tag` and `restore_tag`. `backup_tag` defines the networks within the organization you wish to take backups from. `restore_tag` defines the networks within the organization you wish to restore to a previous backup. If no networks are tagged for a backup operation, if choosing a backup task, the script will end without taking any backups. If choosing a restore task when no networks are tagged for a restore operations, no networks will be restored.

![image alt text](images/network_tags.png)

5. Run the script with `python main.py`

<a name="backup"></a>

## Backup Operation

As you run the script, you will be prompted for a few things:

1. As the backup begins, you will have to choose that you want a `Backup my Meraki networks job` by entering the number `1` at the prompt and pressing Enter
![image alt text](images/backup_menu1.png)
2. You will then be prompted with the list of organizations your API key has access to (after filtering for the optional `org_number_filter` or `org_name_filter` as explained in the previous section), and you will have to enter the row number of the organization you wish to work with. For example, for the `Francisco Tello` organization, you should enter `3` as in the image.
![image alt text](images/backup_menu2.png)
3. The script will then list all networks in that organization that have the `merakiBackup` tag that you assigned in step 4 of the previous section, and you'll have to confirm with a `Y` if you want to proceed with those
![image alt text](images/backup_menu3.png)
4. As the script runs, several logs will be displayed to the console detailing which step the script is at, and the result of the API calls being performed. Any API-related errors will be caught and logged to a .csv file. Other types of errors might require some additional troubleshooting.
![image alt text](images/backup_menu_logs.png)
5. The backup script will start creating a folder structure for every setting it fetches as in the picture below, and each setting is saved as a .json file in the structure. As a sample, see the sample .json file for VLAN DHCP settings on an MX below.
![image alt text](images/backup_folder_structure.png)
![image alt text](images/backup_sample.png)
**Note**: It's very important that you do not manually modify these folders or files, as they could break future restore operations. Be very careful when changing these.
6. When the script finishes execution, it will output a CSV file under the backup's top level folder called `backup_operations.csv`, listing every operation performed in every network, and will mark them Complete if they finished successfully, or it will add an error output if not (only for API related errors).
![image alt text](images/backup_results.png)

<a name="restore"></a>

## Restore Operation

<a name="caveats"></a>

## Caveats
